# Graph_Algorithms
Algorithms on Graphs by University of California San Diego &amp; National Research University Higher School of Economics


If you have ever used a navigation service to find optimal route and estimate time to destination, you've used algorithms on graphs. Graphs arise in various real-world situations as there are road networks, computer networks and, most recently, social networks! If you're looking for the fastest time to get to work, cheapest way to connect set of computers into a network or efficient algorithm to automatically find communities and opinion leaders in Facebook, you're going to work with graphs and algorithms on graphs. In this course, you will first learn what a Graph is and what are some of the most important properties. Then you'll learn several ways to traverse graphs and how you can do useful things while traversing the graph in some order. We will then talk about shortest paths algorithms — from the basic ones to those which open door for 1000000 times faster algorithms used in Google Maps and other navigational services. You will use these algorithms if you choose to work on our Fast Shortest Routes industrial capstone project. We will finish with minimum spanning trees which are used to plan road, telephone and computer networks and also find applications in clustering and approximate algorithms.


Programming Assignments are a very important part of this course. We believe that the main way to fully understand an algorithm is to implement it. If you're studying this course as a part of Data Structures and Algorithms Specialization, you're already familiar with the style of the programming assignments from the first course of Specialization — Algorithmic Toolbox. However, if you're taking this class independently, we strongly recommend that before you start working on the Programming Assignments in this course, you first go through the videos and readings of the first week of the Algorithmic Toolbox class: they will guide you through the process of implementing a solution, testing it, finding bugs, fixing them and submitting the assignment (all the materials of the Algorithmic Toolbox class are also available at this shared folder). You will learn a very powerful testing technique that will lead you to success at least 95% of the time. Also you will get general advice about working on Programming Assignments. The second week of the Algorithmic Toolbox class also introduces big-O notation that is widely used in upper bounds on the running time of algorithms.
